Integrations: Prometheus (#3706)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/metrics-logging/metrics-to-prometheus.md

        - [services, :serviceId, operations, integrations]
---

import IntegrationPrereqs from "versionContent/_partials/_integration-prereqs.mdx";

# Export metrics to Prometheus

[Prometheus][prometheus] is an open-source monitoring system with a dimensional data model, flexible query language, and a modern alerting approach.

> This page shows you how to export your $SERVICE_SHORT telemetry to Prometheus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows you how to export your $SERVICE_SHORT telemetry to Prometheus using [PostgreSQL Exporter][link to https://grafana.com/oss/prometheus/exporters/postgres-exporter/] 
```

## Prerequisites

<IntegrationPrereqs />

- [Download and install Prometheus][install-prometheus].

## Export $SERVICE_SHORT telemetry to Prometheus

Take the following steps to export your data:

<Procedure>

> 1. **Connect to your $SERVICE_LONG as a privileged user**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Connect to your $SERVICE_LONG**
```

This does not really exist for Console at the moment.

>    See the available [connection options][run-queries]. For self-hosted installations, use [`psql`][psql].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For $CLOUD_SHORT, connect from [$CONSOLE][run-queries] . For self-hosted, use [`psql`][psql].
```

1. **Create a user to scrape the metrics**

   1. Create a user named `monitoring` with a password:

      ```sql
      CREATE USER monitoring WITH PASSWORD '<password>';
      ```

   1. Grant the `pg_read_all_stats` permission to the `monitoring` user:

      ```sql
      GRANT pg_read_all_stats to monitoring;
      ```

1. **Install PostgreSQL Exporter**

>    PostgreSQL Exporter collects PostgreSQL performance metrics and exposes them in a Prometheus-compatible format. [Install PostgreSQL Exporter][install-exporter] on the host that you use to connect to your $SERVICE_SHORT and collect telemetry. To reduce latency and potential data transfer costs, run PostgreSQL Exporter in the same AWS region as your $SERVICE_LONG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You Install PostgreSQL Exporter on the machine that you use to connect to your $SERVICE_SHORT and collect telemetry. To reduce latency and potential data transfer costs, run PostgreSQL Exporter in the same AWS region as your $SERVICE_LONG.
```

You don't need the link as you explain how to install next.

Author: I don't fully explain how to install (there are many options and many platforms and we decided not to provide those steps in our integration pages), but only provide an example where you need to use connection details.

Reviewer: Moved to the prerequisistes

>    For example, install using Docker:

Reviewer: Can you change the to list thingies:

- Using Docker
   bla bla
- Binary install 
   bla bla

   1. Pull the Docker image:
   
      ```bash
      docker pull quay.io/prometheuscommunity/postgres-exporter
      ````

   1. Run the container:

    ```bash
    docker run -d --name=postgresql_exporter \
    -e DATA_SOURCE_NAME="postgresql://<username>:<password>@<host>:<port>/<database>?sslmode=require" \
    -p 9187:9187 quay.io/prometheuscommunity/postgres-exporter
    ```

   - `<username>`: `monitoring`
   - `<password>`: the `monitoring` user password
   - `<host>`, `<port>`, and `<database>`: configure using your [connection details][connection-info].

   If not using Docker, download the binary and configure the `DATA_SOURCE_NAME` environment variable similarly. To check the installation, navigate to `http://<exporter-host>:9187/metrics`. You should see PostgreSQL metrics in the Prometheus format.

1. **Configure Prometheus to scrape metrics**

>    1. Update the `prometheus.yml` file to include PostgreSQL Exporter as a scrape target. If `prometheus.yml` has not been created during installation, create it manually:

Reviewer: Make into substeps:

1. If `prometheus.yml` has not been created during installation, create it manually with the following template:
2. Update bla bla

Author: These are not separate steps. You either update it, or create it. In both cases, just one step

      ```yaml
      global:
        scrape_interval: 15s
      
      scrape_configs:
      - job_name: 'postgresql'
        static_configs:
         - targets: ['<exporter-host>:9187'] 
      ```

      Replace `<exporter-host>` with the hostname or IP address of the PostgreSQL Exporter. 

   1. Restart Prometheus.

>    1. Check the Prometheus UI at `http://<prometheus-host>:9090`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Connect to the Prometheus UI at `http://<prometheus-host>:9090`.
```

Author: This is in the sense of "open a browser window and look at the UI". Why would we say "connect" here? Sounds like there are extra steps involved.

>       The PostgreSQL Exporter target under `Status` > `Target health` must be active.

Reviewer: 1. Set the bla bla

Author: Set what? You don't set anything, you just check that it works.
